Q&A: Access to Education
Information for field staff and refugee parents

The following Q&A was produced in accordance with information from the Ministry of Education,
Research, and Religious Affairs’ plan so to ensure better communication with refugee parents and
children staying in Greece.

Accessing in public schocls in Greece does not oblige refugees to stay in Greece. Education for refugee
children is available while they stay in Greece and is benefidal to them, asit provides some stability and
nomalcy. In addition, decumentation of attendance will be provided upon departure from Greece.

Who Is eligible?

All children have the right to access school education in Greece, without distinction. The unique condition
for children to attend school is to be vaccinated, which lies under the responsibility of the Greek Ministry
of Health.

The first stage of the Ministry's programme isf oausing on providing access to children between 415
years old, who are of compulsory school age — kindergarten (nipiagogeio) to junior high school
(eymnasio).

The Ministry's plan primarily targets the estimated 18,000 refugee and migrant children of compulsory
school age (14% of the total student population in Greece). In order to accommodate all the refugee
children in the Greek school system, two options have been proposed by the Ministry. The first is for
children living in open temporary sites, the second is for children living in dispersed areas in urban
settings such as relocation accommodation, squats, apartments, hotels, and reception centresfor asylum
seekers and UAMs.

Children Iiving in open temporary sites:

Children between 4-5‘ years ald will be eligible to attend additional kindergarten facilities, which will be
established within the open temperary sites.

Children aged between 6-15* years will be enrolled in af temoon reception classes from 14:00 to 18:00, in
neighbouring public schools identified by the Ministry. They will be taught Greek as a second language,
English language, mathematics, sports, arts and computer scence.

The International Organization for Migration (OM) will ensure the transportation of the refugee children
from the open temporary sites to the selected schools with buses equipped with IOM escorts.

‘according tothe Greek school system andthe new Ministerial decision
2accor ding to the Greek school sj stem andthe new Ministerial decision

1

 
